# Use of 3D Parametric Models in the Automotive Component Design Process
The process of design, development and production of cars has been strongly influenced by the use of computer technology since the 1980s. The philosophy of CAD (Computer Aided Design) and CAM (Computer Aided Manufacturing) approaches has become an integral part of the automotive industry. These technologies have shortened the innovation cycle in car model lines to 6-8 years. In the middle of this cycle, the so-called facelift of the model line is employed, when there are certain shape changes of the exterior and interior of the car or the equipment is expanded with new or improved elements. CAx systems enable changes to be made in such a short period of time. This article deals with the design of a fully parametric CAD model of a car interior element. Specifically, it is part of the door pull handle. The advantages of connecting a fully parametric model to a spreadsheet were pointed out. This link has a significant impact on the speed and flexibility of change processes on product models. The model was created in the Part Design volume modeler in the CAD system CATIA V5 Release21, which is used mainly in the automotive and aerospace industries. The parameters of the model were linked to the MS Excel spreadsheet.

Proces projektowania, rozwijania i produkcji samochodów został bardzo mocno wsparty przez technologie komputerowe już od lat 80tych. Filozofia CAD - Computer Aided Design (ang. komputerowo wsparte projektowanie) i CAM - Computer Aided Manufacutring (ang. komputerowo wsprarta produkcja)  stały się integralną częścią rynku motoryzacyjnego. Technologie te pozwoliły na skrócenie czasu cyklu innowacyjnego do 6-8 lat.